---
description: 'Which node types exist: What do they do?'
---

# Reference: .streamingsector node types

## What do they do?

Nodes are what make up the entire game world, from visible things like meshes, entities and light, to invisible things like area nodes, markers and collisions.

There are a number of node types, be they a static wall, a random object or an interactive entity. There are nodes for defining trigger areas, spawn points, lighting, weather and so on. The nodes carry the information for what mesh to use, which appearance of it, what physical properties to give them and so on. In the sector files there are two lists, the nodes, which define the nodes themselves, and the nodeData which defines where to put them, a single node can be referenced by multiple nodeData entries.

Nodes go beyond just what is immediately visible, there are also ones for optimization (E.g. Occluders and proxies), markers used by quests, reflection probes ensuring consistent lighting, community nodes which spawn NPCs (With options to change their spawning behavior based on time of day), guard areas to restrict enemy NPCs to their mission area and more.

## Node Types

{% hint style="info" %}
For a full list of node types (as of 2.1), see [DocPresto's github](https://github.com/DoctorPresto/Cyberpunk-File-Types/blob/main/lists/worldNodes_types.json)
{% endhint %}

List below is the node types I've found so far while building the blender sector import script.

<table><thead><tr><th width="427"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>MinimapDataNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldAISpotNode </td><td>Usually used within worldCompiledCommunityAreaNode as a spot to spawn an entity.</td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticMarkerNode</td><td>Used as a general purpose marker, used by anything that needs to reference a position (E.g. Scenes)</td></tr><tr><td>worldAcousticSectorNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldAmbientAreaNode </td><td>Area node which controls the acoustic environment, e.g. muffling interior or playing ambient sounds</td></tr><tr><td>worldBendedMeshNode </td><td>Used for roads (not implemented in blender import yet)</td></tr><tr><td>worldBuildingProxyMeshNode </td><td>Proxy mesh for building at further distance. Textures are normally embedded so canonly export with wscript currently.</td></tr><tr><td>worldCableMeshNode </td><td>Cables, like between utility poles.</td></tr><tr><td>worldCollisionNode </td><td>Adds collision, can be either box/sphere/capsule, or a mesh</td></tr><tr><td>worldCompiledCommunityAreaNode_Streamable </td><td>Defines a community that spawns a group of dynamic entities such as NPCs and vehicles.</td></tr><tr><td>worldCompiledSmartObjectsNode   </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldDestructibleEntityProxyMeshNode</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldDeviceNode </td><td>Essentially the same as worldEntityNode but with the ability define connections to other device entities. Imports as just an entity in blender.</td></tr><tr><td>worldEffectNode</td><td>Places <code>.effect</code> file in the game world</td></tr><tr><td>worldEntityNode</td><td>Defines an object defined by an <code>.ent</code> file (door, vending machine, fan etc)</td></tr><tr><td>worldEntityProxyMeshNode  </td><td>Proxy mesh, linked to a owner node, which is a <code>worldEntityNode</code></td></tr><tr><td>worldFoliageNode </td><td>Puts down lots of small things like boxes, garbage bags, plants. Uses a buffer to define positions that we haven't worked out yet.</td></tr><tr><td>worldGINode   </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldGIShapeNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldGISpaceNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldGenericProxyMeshNode </td><td>Proxy mesh for objects at distance. Also used for some low poly buildings at a distance without mesh node counterpart.</td></tr><tr><td>worldGuardAreaNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldInstancedDestructibleMeshNode</td><td>as worldInstancedMeshNode but breakable</td></tr><tr><td>worldInstancedMeshNode </td><td>Instanced copies of a static mesh uses a worldTransformBuffer in the nodeData to define the number of copies and positions of all the copies</td></tr><tr><td>worldInstancedOccluderNode </td><td>Instanced transforms are implemented via a <code>worldInstancedOccluderNode_Buffer</code> containing 4 <code>Vector4</code> 's each representing an in order row of a 4x4 Matrix</td></tr><tr><td>worldInterestingConversationsAreaNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldInteriorAreaNode </td><td>Defines a trigger area and applied restrictions such as no combat, prevent quests from starting, etc.</td></tr><tr><td>worldLightChannelShapeNode</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldLightChannelVolumeNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldPerformanceAreaNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldPhysicalDestructionNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldPopulationSpawnerNode</td><td>Spawns entity using TweakDBID. Mainly used for vehicles.</td></tr><tr><td>worldReflectionProbeNode </td><td>Places a <code>.envprove</code> with a specifc size, controls the overal lighting and base cubemap reflections in an area</td></tr><tr><td>worldRoadProxyMeshNode </td><td>Road Mesh. </td></tr><tr><td>worldRotatingMeshNode </td><td>Mesh node with an axis/angle/period defined for rotating</td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticDecalNode </td><td>Static Decal, can use any <code>.mi</code> that uses one of the <code>base\materials\decal_.mt</code> files</td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticFogVolumeNode </td><td>Places fog with specified properties within a volume, very subtle</td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticMeshNode </td><td>Static mesh, has no collision</td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticOccluderMeshNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticParticleNode </td><td>Places a <code>.particle</code> file</td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticSoundEmitterNode </td><td>Plays a sound from a single point in space</td></tr><tr><td>worldTerrainCollisionNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldTerrainMeshNode </td><td>The ground, textures are embedded, can export with wscript. UVs are messed up for some reason, auto generated for plugin >1.5.1</td></tr><tr><td>worldTrafficCompiledNode </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldTriggerAreaNode</td><td>Defines an area to which triggers can be assigned to. Include thing like vehicle forbidden, instant death, quest notifier etc.</td></tr><tr><td>worldSmartObjectNode</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldStaticLightNode</td><td>Defines a light, either point, spot or area</td></tr><tr><td>worldInteriorMapNode</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldAdvertisementNode</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>worldMeshNode</td><td>Base class for all mesh type nodes</td></tr><tr><td>worldSplineNode</td><td>Defines a path using a bezier spline. Used for NPC walking paths etc. Imported to blender as curve.</td></tr></tbody></table>

