---
description: Explanation for BaseStats behavior. (Tested in game)
---

# Cheat Sheet: Weapon BaseStats

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="244">BaseStat</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>RecoilDir</strong></td><td>Direction the camera sways in when shooting. Extremely hard to observe in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilAngle</strong></td><td>Affects recoil angle variability. Extremely hard to observe in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilHoldDuration</strong></td><td>Sets the time before recoil begins to recover post-firing. If set to 1 second, recoil will hold it's position for one second, then begin recovering.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilTime</strong></td><td>Influences the time taken for the weapon to reach its maximum recoil distance. If adjusting RecoilKickMin or RecoilKickMax, adjust this value accordingly for a natural feel.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilDelay</strong></td><td>Determines the delay between firing and the start of the recoil effect. If set to 1 second, gun will hold it's position for 1 second before recoil begins.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilRecovery</strong></td><td>Controls the speed at which the weapon returns to its original position after recoiling. Opposite of <strong>RecoilTime.</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearX</strong></td><td>Toggles horizontal recoil on (1) or off (0). Affects both ADS and non-ADS; no recoil means no camera/weapon sway, but bullet spread is still present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearY</strong></td><td>Toggles vertical recoil on (1) or off (0). Affects both ADS and non-ADS; no recoil means no camera/weapon sway, but bullet spread is still present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearXADS</strong></td><td>No observable effect in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearYADS</strong></td><td>No observable effect in-game.</td></tr><tr><td>RecoilKickMin</td><td>Minimum recoil distance (camera movement/weapon sway)</td></tr><tr><td>RecoilKickMax</td><td>Maximum recoil distance (camera movement/weapon sway)</td></tr><tr><td>MagazineCapacityBase</td><td>Magazine capacity for a weapon</td></tr><tr><td>ReloadTimeBase</td><td>Reload time when magazine is not empty</td></tr><tr><td>EmptyReloadTime</td><td>Reload time when magazine is empty</td></tr><tr><td>ZoomLevel</td><td>Zoom level of a weapon</td></tr></tbody></table>
