---
description: Explanation for BaseStats behavior. (Tested in game)
---

# Cheat Sheet: Weapon BaseStats

## Summary

&#x20;**Published: Feb 07 2024 by destinybu**\
**Last documented update: Feb 07 2024 by destinybu**

This page contains an overview on weapon property records and explains their properties.

#### Wait, this is not what I want!

* If you're looking for a guide to add weapons, check [weapons](../../../modding-guides/items-equipment/adding-new-items/weapons/ "mention") or  [new-iconic-weapon-tutorial-for-dummies.md](../../../modding-guides/items-equipment/adding-new-items/weapons/new-iconic-weapon-tutorial-for-dummies.md "mention")
* For an overview of weapon audio profiles, check [cheat-sheet-weapon-audio.md](cheat-sheet-weapon-audio.md "mention")
* For an overview of weapons and their files, check [weapons.md](../../equipment/weapons.md "mention")

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="260">BaseStat</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>RecoilDir</strong></td><td>Direction the camera sways in when shooting. +180 Degrees will make the recoil be completely opposite.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilAngle</strong></td><td>Affects recoil angle variability. Extremely hard to observe in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilHoldDuration</strong></td><td>Sets the time before recoil begins to recover post-firing. If set to 1 second, recoil will hold it's position for one second, then begin recovering.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilTime</strong></td><td>Influences the time taken for the weapon to reach its maximum recoil distance. If adjusting RecoilKickMin or RecoilKickMax, adjust this value accordingly for a natural feel.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilDelay</strong></td><td>Determines the delay between firing and the start of the recoil effect. If set to 1 second, gun will hold it's position for 1 second before recoil begins.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilRecovery</strong></td><td>Controls the speed at which the weapon returns to its original position after recoiling. Opposite of <strong>RecoilTime.</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearX</strong></td><td>Toggles horizontal recoil on (1) or off (0). Affects both ADS and non-ADS; no recoil means no camera/weapon sway, but bullet spread is still present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearY</strong></td><td>Toggles vertical recoil on (1) or off (0). Affects both ADS and non-ADS; no recoil means no camera/weapon sway, but bullet spread is still present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearXADS</strong></td><td>No observable effect in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearYADS</strong></td><td>No observable effect in-game.</td></tr><tr><td>RecoilKickMin</td><td>Minimum recoil distance (camera movement/weapon sway)</td></tr><tr><td>RecoilKickMax</td><td>Maximum recoil distance (camera movement/weapon sway)</td></tr><tr><td>MagazineCapacityBase</td><td>Magazine capacity for a weapon</td></tr><tr><td>ReloadTimeBase</td><td>Governs the speed of which the reload animation plays (no effect on time before one can fire again)</td></tr><tr><td>EmptyReloadTime</td><td>Governs the speed of which the reload animation plays when magazine is empty (no effect on time before one can fire again)</td></tr><tr><td>ZoomLevel</td><td>Zoom level of a weapon</td></tr><tr><td>AimFOV</td><td>FOV in ADS (Gives the illusion of zoom)</td></tr><tr><td>HeadshotDamageMultiplier</td><td>Damage multiplier for head shots</td></tr><tr><td>HeadshotCritChance</td><td>Crit chance only for headshots</td></tr><tr><td>EffectiveRange</td><td>Range after which damage drop off begins</td></tr><tr><td>MaximumRange</td><td>Range after which bullet will despawn/not hit</td></tr><tr><td>WeaponNoise</td><td>Does not change weapon audio volume. Affects how enemies react to bullets landing near them, a high weapon noise will make enemies instantly detect you where as low weapon noise means enemies will just look around/ completely ignore the shot</td></tr><tr><td>Range</td><td>How far you can hit enemies from when using a melee attack. Most melee weapons have a range between 1.5 - 2</td></tr><tr><td>Weight</td><td>Weight of item in inventory (Set it to 1000 to annoy users 🤣).</td></tr><tr><td>ThrowRecovery</td><td>Time taken by throwable weapons to return to owner once thrown</td></tr><tr><td>CanWeaponIgnoreArmor</td><td>Misleading name, as this is not a boolean. Value of 0.5 will mean that the weapon can ignore 50% armor.</td></tr><tr><td>DPS</td><td>Damage of the weapon as shown in Inventory when the weapon is Tier 1</td></tr></tbody></table>
