---
description: How to set up the folder structure from scratch
---

# Adding new items: files from scratch

## Summary

**Created by @manavortex**\
**Updated June 10 2023**

This page is a part of the [Adding new items](./) guide and  deals with finding the correct files for [an ArchiveXL item addition](./). For an explanation of the file structure, see the [corresponding wiki page](archive-xl-item-structure-explained.md).&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
**TL;DR**: If you can't be arsed doing this by yourself, find a template project with one working item (female rigged) [here](https://www.mediafire.com/file/ef5xcacwomldizg/my\_shirt.7z/file). (But in this case: Why are you reading this page?)
{% endhint %}

## Overview:

<table><thead><tr><th width="316">File in modded dir</th><th>was originally copied from</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>rootentity.ent</code></td><td><code>base\gameplay\items\equipment\underwear\player_underwear_item.ent</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>appearance.app</code></td><td><code>base\gameplay\items\equipment\underwear\appearances\player_underwear_item_appearances.app</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>mesh_entity.ent</code><br><code>⚠</code> Check the red hint box <code>⚠</code></td><td><code>base\characters\garment\player_equipment\torso\t1_080_pwa_tank__judy.ent</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>my_mesh.mesh</code></td><td><code>base\characters\garment\gang_monk\torso\t2_135_jacket__monk_shirt\t2_135_wa_jacket__monk_shirt.mesh</code></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><code>my_tshirt_factory.csv</code></td><td><code>base\gameplay\factories\items\clothing.csv</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>translation_strings.json</code></td><td><code>base\localization\en-us\onscreens\onscreens.json</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>preview_icons.inkatlas</code></td><td><code>base\gameplay\gui\common\icons\items\item_icons6.inkatlas</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>preview_icons.xbm</code></td><td><code>base\gameplay\gui\common\icons\items\item_icons6.xbm</code></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><code>tutorial_my_custom_tshirt.archive.xl</code></td><td>Wolvenkit -> New File -> ArchiveXL</td></tr><tr><td><code>tutorial_my_custom_tshirt.yaml</code></td><td>Wolvenkit -> New File -> TweakXL</td></tr></tbody></table>

{% hint style="danger" %}
For `mesh_entity.ent,` your entity file needs to correspond to your item's **body part**. If you put a shirt in an entity file for shoes, it will deform badly once you put it on. For further details, check [here](different-equipment-slots.md).
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="success" %}
It is good practice to keep local copies of everything that you change (=> `custompathing`) instead of overwriting files under `base`. This makes sure that no other mods will overwrite your changes.

\
ℹ Only keep files under `base` if you are okay with them being overwritten!
{% endhint %}

### Optional, but **very** recommended: Clean out obsolete entries

1. Open the file `translation_strings.json` in WolvenKit.\
   Expand the array `root` and then the array `entries`. Delete all entries but one.
2. Open the file `my_shirt_factory.csv` in WolvenKit.\
   In `compiledData`, delete all entries but one. In `data`, delete everything - these will get autogenerated.
3.  Open the file `root_entity.ent`.

    Expand the list `appearances`. Delete all entries but the first (most likely `default`).
4. Open the file `my_custom_shirt.app`.\
   Expand the list `appearances`. Delete all entries but `default`.
5. Open the file `mesh_entity.ent`\
   Select `resolvedDependencies` and delete all the entries. (We don't need Judy's top anymore.)
6. Make a back-up copy of your `t1_custom_shirt.mesh`, then open it.
   1. Expand the first `appearances` at the top of the file. Open the appearance `default` and check which material is linked in the `chunkMaterials` array.

{% hint style="success" %}
**Now is a good time for a backup.**
{% endhint %}
