---
description: Explanation for BaseStats behavior. (Tested in game)
---

# Cheat Sheet: Weapon BaseStats

## Summary

**Published: Feb 07 2024 by destinybu**\
**Last documented update: Feb 07 2024 by destinybu**

This page contains an overview on weapon property records and explains their properties.

#### Wait, this is not what I want!

* For a full dump of all base stats, check [cheat-sheet-base-stats.md](../cheat-sheet-base-stats.md "mention")
* If you're looking for a guide to add weapons, check [weapons](../../../../modding-guides/items-equipment/adding-new-items/weapons/ "mention") or  [new-iconic-weapon-tutorial-for-dummies.md](../../../../modding-guides/items-equipment/adding-new-items/weapons/new-iconic-weapon-tutorial-for-dummies.md "mention")
* For an overview of weapon audio profiles, check [cheat-sheet-weapon-audio.md](cheat-sheet-weapon-audio.md "mention")
* For an overview of weapons and their .ent files, check [weapons.md](../../equipment/weapons.md "mention")

{% hint style="info" %}
To use any of the values from the table, **prefix** them with `BaseStats.`, e.g. `BaseStats.RecoilDir`
{% endhint %}

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="260">BaseStat</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>RecoilDir</strong></td><td>Direction the camera sways in when shooting. +180 Degrees will make the recoil be completely opposite.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilAngle</strong></td><td>Affects recoil angle variability. Extremely hard to observe in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilHoldDuration</strong></td><td>Sets the time before recoil begins to recover post-firing. If set to 1 second, recoil will hold it's position for one second, then begin recovering.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilTime</strong></td><td>Influences the time taken for the weapon to reach its maximum recoil distance. If adjusting RecoilKickMin or RecoilKickMax, adjust this value accordingly for a natural feel.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilDelay</strong></td><td>Determines the delay between firing and the start of the recoil effect. If set to 1 second, gun will hold it's position for 1 second before recoil begins.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilRecovery</strong></td><td>Controls the speed at which the weapon returns to its original position after recoiling. Opposite of <strong>RecoilTime.</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearX</strong></td><td>Toggles horizontal recoil on (1) or off (0). Affects both ADS and non-ADS; no recoil means no camera/weapon sway, but bullet spread is still present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearY</strong></td><td>Toggles vertical recoil on (1) or off (0). Affects both ADS and non-ADS; no recoil means no camera/weapon sway, but bullet spread is still present.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearXADS</strong></td><td>No observable effect in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilEnableLinearYADS</strong></td><td>No observable effect in-game.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilKickMin</strong></td><td>Minimum recoil distance (camera movement/weapon sway)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>RecoilKickMax</strong></td><td>Maximum recoil distance (camera movement/weapon sway)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>MagazineCapacityBase</strong></td><td>Magazine capacity for a weapon</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ReloadTimeBase</strong></td><td>Governs the speed of which the reload animation plays (no effect on time before one can fire again)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>EmptyReloadTime</strong></td><td>Governs the speed of which the reload animation plays when magazine is empty (no effect on time before one can fire again)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ZoomLevel</strong></td><td>Zoom level of a weapon</td></tr><tr><td><strong>AimFOV</strong></td><td>FOV in ADS (Gives the illusion of zoom)</td></tr><tr><td><strong>HeadshotDamageMultiplier</strong></td><td>Damage multiplier for head shots</td></tr><tr><td><strong>HeadshotCritChance</strong></td><td>Crit chance only for headshots</td></tr><tr><td><strong>WeaponNoise</strong></td><td>Does not change weapon audio volume. Affects how enemies react to bullets landing near them, a high weapon noise will make enemies instantly detect you where as low weapon noise means enemies will just look around/ completely ignore the shot</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Range</strong></td><td>How far you can hit enemies from when using a melee attack. Most melee weapons have a range between 1.5 - 2</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Weight</strong></td><td>Weight of item in inventory (Set it to 1000 to annoy users 🤣).</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ThrowRecovery</strong></td><td>Time taken by throwable weapons to return to owner once thrown</td></tr><tr><td><strong>CanWeaponIgnoreArmor</strong></td><td>Misleading name, as this is not a boolean. Value of 0.5 will mean that the weapon can ignore 50% armor.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>DPS</strong></td><td>Damage of the weapon as shown in Inventory when the weapon is Tier 1. <strong>Actual damage per attack is calculated by DPS, attack speed (cycle time) and reload time.</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>CycleTimeBase</strong></td><td>Affects the rate of fire. Lower value = faster rate. <strong>(Cycle Time = interval between attacks = 1 / attacks_per_second)</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadDefaultX</strong></td><td>Default (first shot) spread of hip fire. Higher value = worse spread. Lower = better.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadChangePerShot</strong></td><td>Amount of spread increased after each consecutive hip fire attack. Lower = better.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadMaxX</strong></td><td>Maximum possible spread of hip fire when the spread increases during consecutive attack.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadAdsDefaultX</strong></td><td>Same as <strong>SpreadDefaultX</strong> but when ADS.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadAdsMaxX</strong></td><td>Same as <strong>SpreadChangePerShot</strong> but when ADS.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadAdsChangePerShot</strong></td><td>Same as <strong>SpreadMaxX</strong> but when ADS.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadResetTimeThreshold</strong></td><td>Time before spread starts to reset after the player stops firing. Lower = better.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadResetSpeed</strong></td><td>How fast the spread resets to default. Lower = better.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SpreadUseEvenDistribution</strong></td><td>Use a fixed pattern for spread. 0 = random. 1 = fixed pattern like Omaha/Achilles.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>ProjectilesPerShotBase</strong></td><td>Projectiles fired per shot.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>BaseChargeTime</strong></td><td>Charge duration of tech weapons. Seems can't be set below 0.25s.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>FullAutoOnFullCharge</strong></td><td>1 = makes the weapon fires full auto when charged. <strong>Charge level will start to decrease after the first shot fires. Modify the BaseStats.ChargeDischargeTime if you wish to make all shots count as charged (untested).</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>TechPierceEnabled</strong></td><td>Make the weapon capable to penetrate covers. 1 = yes.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>TechPierceChargeLevel</strong></td><td><p>The minimum charge level required for the weapon to penetrate covers. Need <strong>TechPierceEnabled = 1</strong> to work. </p><p>0 = Penetrate covers without being charged.</p><p>1 = Only penetrate covers when 100% charged.</p><p>0.5 = Only penetrate covers when charged above 50%.</p></td></tr><tr><td><strong>TechPierceDamageFactor</strong></td><td><p>Additional damage modifier when firing through covers.</p><p>1 = 100% damage when firing through covers.</p><p>0.5 = 50% damage when firing through covers.</p><p><strong>Doesn't seem to be working for a few tech weapons.</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td><strong>HeadshotDamageMultiplier</strong></td><td>Sets the headshot damage multiplier for the weapon. <strong>Vanilla game define it by weapon type and only applies modifiers for specific weapons.</strong><br>1.0 = 100% damage <strong>bonus</strong> when headshot.<br>2.0 = 200% damage <strong>bonus</strong> when headshot.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>EffectiveRange</strong></td><td>Range for full damage. Attacking enemies further than the effective range will result in lower damage.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>MaximumRange</strong></td><td>Sets the maximum attack range of the weapon. Attacks will not hit enemies further than maximum range at all.</td></tr></tbody></table>

